# W3C Solid Community Group: Solid Editors

* Date: 2021-11-24T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-specification
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/specification
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/specification


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Kjetil Kjernsmo
* Justin 


---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### Attracting Reviewers to Solid Protocol

* KK: Increasing number of reviewers besides the Editors to help with the approval.
* JB: Looked into it. What are the options for GitHub in terms of branch protections? Essentially we can - base qualification to have your review coutn against the review count which is 3 is to have Write access on the repo. One way we can do this is to have a group e.g., contributors, that group will get Write privilege to count towards the approval. It creates a new issue where you can have no editor approval but 3 people form that group all approve it where you meet the minimal. To deal with that there are couple of ways. With GitHub has code owners it can be configured to have a code owners and configure the branch protection where at least one code owner has to approve. What's nice with that is that you can have the group to contribute against the minimum but also have the requirement where they have to be an editor. If someone rejects it, then that's different. The other question oyu asked KK was if it is possible to only have editors to merge to main. Actually I believe that's how it works right now. One thing i haven't tested is automatically giving anyone else write privileges would automaticaly bundle them in to branch protection. That might be a way to get to where we want to. There may be others.
* KK: If we have one editor needed to merge to main then that is sufficient but if we come to that with Write permission ??? It sounds like a good way to go.
* SC: Depends on who are the contributors - selection criteria.
* KK: They should be active implementers. At least have a group that is implementing the server because most of the requirements are on the server side. Where do we set the bar? We do have this implementer forum to consult implementers.
* JB: That list is a good place to start. But we have casually doing stuff and then there are people also doing full time. I think we want people full time. But there should be some diversity in a lot of ways. Agree on who are contributors. I have some people in mind. And we don't want to create conflict in the community. If it gets too big it might not be a good thing either.
* KK: Do we set the bar to full time implementers.
* SC: I'm against the idea of "full time".
* KK: We need a representative from a project e.g. NSS, CSS, ESS, Trinpod. At least server implementers in that group. If it is too small then it'll be a workload on everyone.
* SC: What's the idea? We invite people ot be contributors?
* KK: We should be explicit about them being implementers. There is a bar where they are implementing the specs.
* SC: There are people that /.. UC survey.. aaron.
* JB: Aa.. don't see much people reviewing from the CSS team but they are working full time with a lot of considerations. We could have an action item who shoul dbe contributors.
* KK: representatives from servers is a good start. It is getting harder when ???
* JB: eg. I'm making an app that I want to try.. or deal with client side of this protocol. For example, my company doesn't implement a server but we do support all servers. So, we have a real dependency on both the Protocol is and is not. There is a level of ??? That terrifies me. Diversity is important but we have to consider the consequences of someone showing up not caring much but throwing firecrackers around. We don't see that but don't want to create a vehicle for that either. That started because people doing stuff on the client side .. that should be looked at or invited. For example, people at Ghent e.g., Taelman, was in the implementers session.. not necessarily working on the community server but consuming a lot of its output.
* SC: Implementer: open source project.
* JB: makes senes but can't go to opposite direction either. it is important to have representatives from different groups. In reality most of those orgs are .. also do open source contributions too.
* SC: Why can't anyone review?
* JB: Anyone can write a review but there is branch protection setup that for a PR to be eligible for merging, there is a specific group of reviewers. With 3 approvals. Right now that's just the editors group.
* SC: What would be the roll of the editors if there are 3 approvals? Press a button?
* KK: We do need the editors final approval. Only the editors can/should merge.
* JB: Is this PR .. has it passed the checks it needs to merge. The kind of requirement for minimum 3 approvals. Then there is who can merge it. We have set up a restrictions where only editors can push to main branch. So, even if you just had 3 approvals from implementers but not editors.. none of them can merge to main. What we were talking about before is setting up editors as 'code owners' to satisfy the merge criteria. GitHub has quite a bit of flexibility.
* SC: So, we have 6 editors for the Protocol spec. And arguably the most 'full time' on spec related work. And yet we are calling for contributors to assist becaues of lack of reviews. Is that the problem we are solving?
* JB: I think we want to solve is more reviews from implementers.
* KK: That is a side effect of this. We want to engage more people. It is difficult to engage if you don't feel that you are contributing to that. So let them contribute to encourage behaviour.
* SC: I have no issue/objection with the idea of making it simpler for anyone to review - minding who are the 'contributors' besides the editors. Don't feel too cmofortable with 1 editor approval.
* KK: My feeling is tha twe should at least have server implementers in that group. It is harder to draw a line to put from client implementers.
* JB: What if we said that we recognise / or invite people from recognised projects or efforts. Which may be open/closed source or academic. with eye towards diversity. Including server or client projects but not limited to. We recognise a list of projects. Like for x,y,z... but kind of be a way of doing it .. ge ta bit of flexibility. not saying from a category but from a project. maybe we say have an upper limit of projects. because i can represent my company's projects but im thinking of others.
* SC: Essentially Solid CG can/should be able to review. Restricting ot implementers may not cut it. EWP.
* KK: I wouldn't have brought this up if we didn't have a meeting.. we could at least have an opinion on this.


### N3 Patch
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/346
* SC: I reviewed on paper. Will transfer to digital.


### Constraint on PATCH to target resource
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/349

* KK: Ruben wanted to have side-effects, Sarven didn't. .. people writing into a resource where they didn't have right to.
* JB: I'll look through that in more depth between now and next session.
* KK: It is a smal; thing there but I think it is valuable. The content around that now is where do we explicitly mention side-effects.
* JB: but the server is permitted ot propogate.
* KK: yes but SC thinks that is defined elsewhere in the spec.
* SC: If there is a unique side-effect? Creating/Deleting entails side-effect of updating containment statements. Is there something similar here?
* JB: Agree.. reading it .. 'what side-effects?' call it out explicitly or don't include that and just reference what has to happen in other parts of the spec.
* JB: How might changing that resource effect another? There can be grey area. Are any of those side-effects not included elsewhere in the spec? With PATCH you can create and changing the contianment.
* KK: I'd say no. If you can comment too.
* JB: I'll dig in. Did he cite somewhere other specific UCs or more of a general statement.
